{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Courier New;}}
\fs22
\b Pantheon Ultra Follow-Up Report For DeepSeek\b0\par
\par
Date: 2026-05-02\par
Workspace: /Users/ogr/Dots/ui/Dots2\par
Primary runtime: server/agent-runtime.mjs\par
\par
\b 1. Executive Summary\b0\par
This report covers the implementation and validation of Pantheon ULTRA mode after the earlier event-stream and audit work. The feature goal was to let one dialogue session temporarily escalate into a multi-expert synthesis flow with stable commands, safety checks, cached sessions, and deterministic behavior in stub mode.\par
\par
Delivered outcomes:\par
- canonical expert routing for architect and data-analyst style tasks;\par
- !ultra start and !normal stop commands;\par
- per-user Ultra session cache with follow-up continuity;\par
- deterministic synthesis and contradiction scoring;\par
- harmful-request refusal path in Ultra mode;\par
- regression and deep scenario coverage;\par
- final green validation gates.\par
\par
\b 2. Implemented Work\b0\par
The following implementation slices were completed.\par
\par
A. Ultra runtime orchestration\par
- Added command parsing for !ultra and !normal.\par
- Added session lifecycle helpers: create, refresh, prune, clear.\par
- Added follow-up reuse so additional user turns keep the same Ultra session id.\par
- Added report payloads under report.ultra for operator inspection.\par
\par
B. Expert router\par
- Added competence scoring in AtmanPersonalityManager.\par
- Added bilingual intent boosts so Russian prompts can activate templates whose metadata is mostly English.\par
- Added canonical template experts such as architect and data-analyst even when the runtime registry only contains clones or no persisted instance yet.\par
- Added mandatory domain coverage for strongly matched template intents before filling remaining slots with generalists.\par
\par
C. Synthesis and safety\par
- Added deterministic synthesis for stub mode.\par
- Added contradiction-resolution scoring from overlap across expert responses.\par
- Added refusal handling for unsafe or privacy-breaking Ultra requests.\par
- Added Ultra event recording into the runtime event stream and learning ledger path.\par
\par
D. Test surface\par
- Added beta contract coverage for Ultra activation, expert selection, follow-up continuity, and !normal switching.\par
- Added deep scenario coverage for cross-disciplinary routing, ethical dilemma handling, and mode switching.\par
\par
\b 3. Bugs Found And Fixed\b0\par
During validation three narrow defects were found and repaired.\par
\par
1. mean is not defined\par
Cause: one stale helper reference remained in Ultra contradiction scoring.\par
Fix: replaced the leftover mean(...) call with the local meanValues(...) helper.\par
\par
2. Wrong expert set for eco-house prompt\par
Cause: the router favored existing generalist personalities because template metadata and query language were mismatched.\par
Fix: added canonical template experts, bilingual intent boosts, and top-k domain coverage logic.\par
\par
3. Cannot read properties of null (reading games)\par
Cause: virtual template experts for templates without duplicated local blueprint metadata passed templateConfig = null into template merge logic.\par
Fix: hardened template-config merging in both server/dialog/atman-personality-manager.mjs and server/dialog/personality-factory.mjs so null configs normalize safely.\par
\par
\b 4. Final Validation Results\b0\par
Executed commands:\par
- npm run beta:test\par
- npm run beta:scenarios\par
- npm run check\par
\par
Final status:\par
- beta:test: 21 of 21 passed\par
- beta:scenarios: 9 of 9 passed\par
- check: passed typecheck, format:check, and production build\par
\par
Generated report files:\par
- server/testing/data/beta-reports/beta-test-2026-05-02T07-37-03-467Z.json\par
- server/testing/data/beta-reports/personality-scenarios-2026-05-02T07-45-07-866Z.json\par
\par
\b 5. Personality Cards\b0\par
These cards summarize the personalities most relevant to the current transfer.\par
\par
Default / Atman\par
Role: base dialogue personality and fallback synthesizer.\par
Strengths: calm dialogue, safe framing, literal explanation style, stable operator-facing behavior.\par
Use in Ultra: chair personality and safe default perspective.\par
\par
Architect\par
Role: design and systems-structure expert.\par
Signals: project structure, space planning, materials, function versus constraints.\par
Use in Ultra: architecture, eco-house, layout, built environment planning.\par
\par
Data-Analyst\par
Role: evidence-first analytics and forecasting expert.\par
Signals: datasets, metrics, climate or energy data, scenario comparisons, explainable hypotheses.\par
Use in Ultra: data-backed tradeoffs, metrics, forecasting, operational evidence.\par
\par
Writer\par
Role: narrative framing and articulation expert.\par
Signals: clear prose, explanation flow, scene or argument shaping.\par
Use in Ultra: polishing, explanation quality, human-readable synthesis.\par
\par
Negotiator\par
Role: compromise and stakeholder-balance expert.\par
Signals: tradeoffs, trust, concessions, deal framing, competing interests.\par
Use in Ultra: budget compromise, stakeholder adoption, conflict resolution.\par
\par
Artist\par
Role: visual style and conceptual atmosphere expert.\par
Signals: aesthetic direction, visual identity, expressive concept work.\par
Use in Ultra: visual concept language and presentation ideas.\par
\par
Realtor\par
Role: market-fit and property pragmatics expert.\par
Signals: client fit, market segment, listing logic, affordability, operational realism.\par
Use in Ultra: real-estate framing, audience fit, adoption constraints.\par
\par
\b 6. Ultra Mode Operating Notes\b0\par
Normal activation sequence:\par
1. User sends !ultra followed by a task.\par
2. Router selects canonical experts.\par
3. Each expert produces an answer using the appropriate personality profile.\par
4. Pantheon synthesizes a single reply.\par
5. Follow-up turns reuse the same Ultra session until !normal.\par
\par
Safety sequence:\par
1. Harmful or privacy-breaking query enters Ultra mode.\par
2. Validation blocks direct operational guidance.\par
3. Runtime returns a refusal with safer alternative framing.\par
\par
\b 7. Suggested Next Steps\b0\par
- Add operator-visible Ultra metrics to admin.html.\par
- Expose recent Ultra sessions through a read-only runtime endpoint.\par
- Add correlation ids across Ultra events, self-learning events, and feedback events.\par
- Add a richer synthesis prompt for Ollama-backed production runs while keeping deterministic fallback in tests.\par
\par
\b 8. Transfer Conclusion\b0\par
The requested Ultra follow-up is implemented, validated, and packaged for transfer. Pantheon now has a repo-native ensemble mode with stable routing, bounded safety behavior, deterministic fallback, and repeatable regression coverage.\par
}
