{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Courier New;}}
\fs22
\b Pantheon Project Dossier\b0\par
\par
Date: 2026-05-02\par
Workspace: /Users/ogr/Dots/ui/Dots2\par
Project type: Vite + React + TypeScript frontend with Node.js ESM runtime and agent orchestration services.\par
\par
\b 1. Project Overview\b0\par
Pantheon is a multi-surface AI runtime centered on dialogue, personality specialization, self-learning, integrations, and operator visibility. The repository combines a browser UI, an admin panel, a Node.js HTTP runtime, background learning subsystems, testing harnesses, and training utilities.\par
\par
The project already contains three important architectural layers:\par
- a web UI for runtime inspection and controls;\par
- a server runtime that exposes dialogue, learning, validation, and integration endpoints;\par
- supporting modules for specialization, ledgering, testing, training, and multimodal stubs.\par
\par
\b 2. Top-Level Structure\b0\par
index.html and src/ contain the main Vite application.\par
static/ contains operator-facing HTML such as admin.html.\par
server/ contains the runtime, dialogue system, learning systems, integrations, navigation and research utilities, testing harnesses, and training tools.\par
docs/ contains operating notes, beta instructions, scenario definitions, and transfer reports.\par
data/ contains curated, raw, exported, and dataset material.\par
\par
\b 3. Frontend Surface\b0\par
Main files:\par
- src/App.tsx\par
- src/components/*\par
- src/lib/*\par
- src/types/*\par
\par
Comments:\par
The frontend is a control-plane style application. It is not just a chat shell. It exposes architecture panels, diagnostics, learning state, integrations, runtime control, protocol views, and tracing. The design assumption is that operators need to inspect the system as a living runtime rather than only consume final answers.\par
\par
The admin page in static/admin.html acts as an additional operator console. It is useful for direct browser-based smoke checks because it exercises live runtime endpoints without requiring the full React shell.\par
\par
\b 4. Runtime Core\b0\par
Main file: server/agent-runtime.mjs\par
\par
Comments:\par
This file is the central HTTP runtime and request router. It owns health endpoints, Atman dialogue endpoints, streaming variants, learning endpoints, runtime controls, integration hooks, and the newer Ultra orchestration path.\par
\par
Important runtime responsibilities:\par
- parse incoming chat payloads;\par
- route dialogue requests to Atman or Ultra mode;\par
- enforce validation and safety boundaries;\par
- expose observability and operator endpoints;\par
- coordinate with the learning ledger;\par
- serve as the single-process composition root for the system.\par
\par
This file now also contains the Ultra session cache, command parser, synthesis flow, and event recording hooks.\par
\par
\b 5. Dialogue And Personality Layer\b0\par
Main files:\par
- server/dialog/atman.mjs\par
- server/dialog/atman-personality-manager.mjs\par
- server/dialog/personality-factory.mjs\par
\par
Comments:\par
Atman is the direct dialogue engine. It produces responses, streams output, persists conversation history, and carries the personality profile into generation.\par
\par
AtmanPersonalityManager is the main state layer for personalities. It stores and mutates personality records, handles ethics, self-learning updates, social simulation, template cloning, event logging, and now expert routing for Ultra mode.\par
\par
personality-factory.mjs is the template and normalization surface. It defines reusable specialist templates and the rules for creating or normalizing template-derived personalities.\par
\par
This layer is the heart of Pantheon because it turns one generic dialogue engine into a set of differentiated personalities with bounded evolution.\par
\par
\b 6. Ultra Mode\b0\par
Ultra mode is a temporary ensemble personality rather than a permanently stored character.\par
\par
Entry commands:\par
- !ultra <query> starts an ensemble turn and session.\par
- !normal exits the session and returns to ordinary dialogue mode.\par
\par
Ultra pipeline:\par
1. Parse the command and detect whether a session already exists for the user.\par
2. Route the query to canonical experts.\par
3. Collect expert responses with per-expert personality profiles.\par
4. Synthesize one final answer.\par
5. Validate the result and refuse if the request crosses the ethical boundary.\par
6. Store the session state for follow-up turns.\par
\par
Comments:\par
The current implementation is deliberately repo-native. It avoids introducing a separate orchestrator service, message broker, or agent graph framework before the internal contract is stable. This keeps the blast radius small and the test harness straightforward.\par
\par
\b 7. Learning, Audit, And Persistence\b0\par
Main files:\par
- server/self_learning/learning-ledger.mjs\par
- server/self_learning/*.mjs\par
\par
Comments:\par
The learning ledger acts as the persistent audit trail for important runtime events. It now stores Atman events and Ultra dialog runs. This gives the project a persistent operational memory without requiring external infrastructure.\par
\par
The self_learning directory contains the systems that drive deeper adaptive behavior, inspection, resonance monitoring, preflight logic, and smoke testing. These modules matter because Pantheon is not only a reactive chatbot; it is intended to learn, inspect, and regulate itself over time.\par
\par
\b 8. Integrations, Research, And Navigation\b0\par
Relevant directories:\par
- server/integrations/\par
- server/navigation/\par
- server/research/\par
- server/validation/\par
\par
Comments:\par
These modules show that Pantheon is built to interact with external surfaces and structured information flows. Integrations manage bridges to external systems. Navigation and research support evidence gathering and web-oriented operations. Validation modules enforce bounded behavior and make safety an explicit runtime concern instead of only a prompt concern.\par
\par
\b 9. Training And Dataset Tooling\b0\par
Relevant directory: server/training/\par
\par
Comments:\par
This area handles curation, ingestion, redaction, export, registry, preparation, evaluation, and activation of training data. The presence of these tools means the repository is not only about live inference. It also contains the operational path for preparing and validating datasets that feed the system's longer-term improvement.\par
\par
\b 10. Testing Strategy\b0\par
Relevant files and commands:\par
- server/testing/beta-test-runner.mjs -> npm run beta:test\par
- server/testing/personality-scenario-runner.mjs -> npm run beta:scenarios\par
- server/testing/admin-ui-beta.mjs -> npm run beta:admin\par
- server/testing/chaos-test.mjs -> npm run beta:chaos\par
- server/testing/load-test.mjs -> npm run beta:load\par
- server/testing/soak-test.mjs -> npm run beta:soak\par
- npm run check -> typecheck, format check, build\par
\par
Comments:\par
The testing strategy is practical and layered. There is a fast regression surface, a deeper scenario surface, admin wiring checks, chaos behavior, load tests, and soak tests. This is stronger than a simple unit-test-only setup because the critical project risks live in runtime behavior and integration seams.\par
\par
Current validated state after the Ultra work:\par
- beta:test passed 21/21\par
- beta:scenarios passed 9/9\par
- check passed\par
\par
\b 11. Operator And Admin Model\b0\par
Pantheon assumes that an operator needs visibility into more than just output text. The admin and runtime surfaces expose health, supervisor status, inspector metrics, event streams, and learning state. This is a good fit for a system that can evolve personalities, learn from inputs, and route work across multiple subsystems.\par
\par
Comments:\par
This operator-first bias is one of the stronger architectural decisions in the project. It makes debugging, beta validation, and responsible deployment much easier than a hidden black-box architecture would.\par
\par
\b 12. Current Strengths\b0\par
- Strong repo-native validation harness.\par
- Explicit personality management instead of implicit prompt-only roleplay.\par
- Safety controls integrated into runtime behavior.\par
- Good separation between frontend, runtime, dialogue, learning, and testing surfaces.\par
- Incremental architecture that can evolve without premature infrastructure.\par
\par
\b 13. Current Risks And Next Steps\b0\par
- Ultra mode would benefit from dedicated admin visibility for recent sessions and selected experts.\par
- Correlation ids across learning, feedback, Ultra events, and training jobs would improve traceability.\par
- Some template metadata still depends on bilingual heuristics; a richer multilingual domain ontology would make routing more robust.\par
- If throughput or background job complexity grows, the project may eventually need explicit job orchestration rather than a purely single-process runtime.\par
\par
\b 14. Conclusion\b0\par
Pantheon is already more than a chat app. It is a small agent platform with personality specialization, bounded adaptation, validation, auditability, and operator tooling. The current Ultra implementation strengthens that direction by adding a practical ensemble layer without sacrificing testability or control.\par
}
